[birds chirping]
[mellow music playing]
It's Autumn Week, Noel.
Are you a fan of autumn?
I love autumn. The leaves are
changing colour on the trees.
-The nights drawing in.
-We get to dress up for Halloween.
-You do, I wear my normal clothes.
-But the best bit about autumn
is making room for my autumn colours
by getting rid of last season's wardrobe.
-You brought your wardrobe?
-See you next summer.
[Noel laughs]
[both] Welcome to
The Great British Baking Show.
-[Noel] This week…
-[vocalising]
-…the bakers battle the autumn blues…
-[exhales]
♪ That's how we gonna do it ♪
-…with a seasonal signature…
-Get in, man.
[laughs]
-…a Bonfire Night technical…
-Do people like this, Gill?
Yes, the people do like this, Dylan.
…and a spectacular showstopper.
-One hell of a baker.
-[all cheering]
-That's amazing.
-[Noel] Whose leaves are about to fall…
-Whoa!
-[Georgie] Oh, good God. Are you okay?
…and whose will turn from green to gold?
The perfect cake.
God, there's no beating that,
is there? [laughs]
[opening theme music playing]
[birds chirping]
[indistinct conversation]
Eeeh! Yes, week six.
There's about half of us left,
so that's really scary, isn't it?
Star Baker.
It's nice coming in with that,
but it's time for that crash and burn,
isn't it now? [laughs]
-Nelly, good luck.
-[Nelly] Good luck.
[Nelly] It's Autumn Week.
Autumn is colourful,
tastes, smells, beautiful.
Just like me, you can see.
It's my favourite time to bake.
I make pumpkin pie, apple pie,
apple crumble, sticky toffee pudding.
Just the best desserts. [laughs]
[Dylan] Everyone's looking forward
to this week, and I'm really not.
The pressure's higher.
There's way less people.
Everyone's really good.
I'm just hoping
that it's not, like, catastrophic.
[bright classical music playing]
Welcome back to the tent, bakers,
for Autumn Week.
[Noel] It's a little bit nippy.
I hope you brought
your duffle coats and mittens.
If you haven't, two oven gloves,
bit of string works perfectly.
[Alison chuckles]
So for your signature bake,
the judges would like you to bake
a comforting, sweet autumnal pie.
Now, your autumnal pie must have
melt-in-the-mouth pastry
and the filling must celebrate seasonal
and autumnal flavours and produce.
-I'm feeling pumpkin, Noel.
-I'm always feeling pumpkin.
I love pumpkin and skeleton outfits.
Basically Halloween.
-It's my Christmas.
-[laughs] Love it.
-[Noel] You have two hours and 45 minutes.
-On your marks.
-Get set.
-[Alison] Bake!
[bright classical music playing]
Obsessed with this week.
I love autumn, everything about it,
so, in my comfort zone, but also not
because anything could go wrong.
[Paul] It's Autumn Week in the tent
and we're celebrating everything
connected with harvest time.
My Nelly,
you look like autumn personified.
I am Autumn.
The signature bake this week
is a sweet autumnal pie.
I'm looking for really some lovely fruit
and for wonderful pastry.
Pastry, I'm just going for something
that's nice and flaky.
When you think of autumn,
you also think of spices.
This is like a speculaas-spiced pastry.
So speculaas is kind of like mixed spice
for Dutch people.
But again, it's about delicacy.
It's finding the balance.
That can be tricky.
I want the bakers
to make a great pie for me.
If it's half as good as my mother's,
I'd be happy.
[bird tweeting]
-[Prue and Paul] Hello, Nelly.
-Good morning.
-So, Nelly, tell us about your pie.
So, I'm doing apple-poppyseeds pie.
So the poppyseed's in the pastry,
I take it?
No, it's gonna be poppyseed filling
with apples.
-Okay.
-That's how I do it at home.
Very unusual.
I've never had anything like that.
It's traditional Slovakian
and it's called jablkové pité.
How much poppyseed
do you put with that apple?
So one kilo of apple
and 200 gram poppyseeds.
It's a lot of poppyseed.
-Get ready for toothpicks afterwards.
-[Paul] Yeah. [laughs]
[Noel] Nelly always takes a slice
of her Slovakian apple and poppyseed pie
on autumn family walks
through her local woods.
But it's not just the filling
that comes from her home country.
The base is a little bit different than to
your British classical shortcrust pastry.
-We add the baking powder.
-[Prue] Oh.
So it is a little bit raised up.
The only trouble is, you can't really
control the thickness, but we'll see.
[Paul and Alison] Good luck.
If it tastes as good as you look,
it'll be a goodie.
-[Prue laughs]
-We shall see.
[Noel] Nelly's not the only baker
staying true to their traditions.
This is the pastry that I've made
with my mum for over 50 years.
This is proper old-school
margarine and lard. [laughs]
[Alison] Gill's been making her
family-favourite apple and blackberry pie
every year since she was a child.
Today she's using a rich shortcrust
to recreate the windy autumn days spent
blackberry picking with her auntie Flo.
Hey, Star Baker. It's unbelievable.
Has it gone to your head?
-Definitely. Yeah.
-[laughs]
Dylan, don't know if you know,
Star Baker here.
-[Dylan] Yeah.
-You remember those days?
[Dylan and Gill laugh]
Things can change in this tent like that.
[Alison] To wow the judges this week…
I hope I can do Paul proud
with my pastry. [laughs]
…the bakers need to produce
a light, melt-in-your-mouth pastry.
[Illiyin] Need to make sure I'm not
working it too much. Just enough.
[Noel] But hoping to get back
into Star Baker contention…
Just bring it into a ball a bit.
And I'll roll it out and laminate it.
…Dylan's the only one choosing to make
a time-consuming,
laminated rough puff pastry.
It's a hard choice using a rough puff.
-You didn't need to.
-[Dylan] Yeah.
But you've chosen something
that could bring a lot to this pie.
[Noel] Dylan will roll, fold
and chill his dough four times
to create an extra flaky
rough puff pastry,
which he'll fill with apples and cider.
-Oh, cider.
-[Dylan] Yeah.
-[Alison] Nice.
-[Paul] Excellent. Like the sound of this.
-Good luck.
-Thanks.
-You're the apple of my eye.
-[laughs]
So I've done two folds on that.
I'll do two more.
It's just gonna go in the freezer
to chill for ten minutes.
[Alison] Dylan's dough may be chilling…
[Illiyin] I'm going to roll out
my dough for the base.
…but the rest of the bakers
are ready to roll.
[Gill] Five mils is my thickness,
so we've got a little bit more to go yet.
You can't control the thickness
with raising agent. It is what it is.
My people from Slovakia
are gonna say, "Go, girl! Go, girl!"
♪ That's how we gonna do it ♪
So I'll bake it for about 15 minutes
with the baking beans in.
In you go, baby.
-[Noel] With the pie crust blind baking…
-Voilà.
…the bakers can now focus
on their fillings…
Poached quince and like ginger and lemon.
It smells like mulled wine.
It's really nice.
…celebrating the flavours of autumn.
Word on the street is
you're not into autumn.
I really don't like autumn.
-What's wrong with it?
-It's just a bit of a boring season.
-But you like it.
-I love it.
'Cause you're like, "Ooh, I'm so goth!"
-[guttural noise]
-[laughs]
I'm making a blueberry,
ginger and pear filling.
There's something very warming,
very comforting about autumn,
so, hopefully I can get that
with those flavours.
[Alison] Illiyin's classic
shortcrust pastry
will be filled with poached pears
and preserved ginger,
all set within her blueberry jam.
Does it set okay or is it too much liquid
when you cut into it?
-Sets okay.
-It's all right?
When I've done it, it set nicely.
-[Paul and Alison] Good luck, Illiyin.
-Thank you.
[Christiaan] So now I'm gonna make
my pumpkin filling.
[Alison] For Christiaan,
autumn can only mean one thing.
[Christiaan] I absolutely love Halloween.
I deck out my whole house.
I love pumpkin decorating.
So it only felt natural
to kind of, like, you know,
do a pumpkin pie filling.
[Noel] Christiaan's
speculaas-spiced pastry
will be filled with layers
of almond paste,
poached quince and, his favourite,
delicately spiced pumpkin.
A bit of cloves. I only need a tiny bit
because it's quite overwhelming.
You want it quite nicely spiced,
quite nicely balanced.
[Noel] Christiaan's not the only one
making a pumpkin pie.
Needs more. 100%.
[Alison] But Georgie's making sure
hers will stand out.
[Georgie] I like a lot
of the spices in there.
So I've got cloves,
ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg,
and I put mixed spice on top as well.
-You've got all the spices.
-Yeah.
It makes me second guess.
I've made it so many times.
But I'm happy with how it tastes anyway.
-Just stick to that.
-Yeah. Yeah.
[Alison] Each year, Georgie's
punchy pumpkin and pecan praline pie
forms the centrepiece
of her elaborate Halloween celebrations.
[Georgie] Like Halloween is my thing.
Trick or treating first.
Then back, drinks, dinner.
-Oh, wow.
-Horror stories, things like that.
-It's the best.
-I love it.
We need to take Dylan out.
He doesn't understand.
[Georgie] We'll take him out
next Halloween trick or treating.
-We'll make pumpkins together.
-Jump in a bunch of crunchy leaves.
Look how excited he is.
He can barely contain himself.
-[Georgie and Noel laugh]
-[Noel] Good luck.
Thanks, Noel.
[chuckling] Dylan, your face.
[Noel] Dylan may yet to be converted…
So this is my pumpkin--
I mean, sorry, my butternut mixture.
…but Sumayah's another baker
joining the pumpkin pie party
with a twist of her own.
[Sumayah] It's just a pumpkin pie
but with butternut instead.
I like the texture of butternut more.
It's less fibrous.
[Alison] Sumayah's butternut squash
custard filling
will be topped with pecans
and decorated with her pet rabbit, Reuben.
-Reuben? Reuben the rabbit?
-Yeah.
You've got two rabbits?
I don't like the other one,
so it's not going on.
[laughs]
-It's a bit like you and Alison.
-[both laugh]
[people groaning]
[Noel] Poor rabbit.
-What's his name? The one you don't like.
-Luna.
-Please don't say "Noel".
-[laughs]
-[birds chirping]
-[whimsical music playing]
This is so exhausting,
rolling this out. [sighs]
Bakers, you are halfway through.
[Gill] It will be close to the wire
but it should be fine
if I can get this built
in the next five minutes.
[Dylan] I'm gonna start blind baking it.
[Noel] While Dylan's rough puff pastry
is finally going into the oven…
-[timer beeping]
-Take my pie out.
…the rest of the bakers'
are ready to come out.
[Illiyin] Make sure nothing's collapsing
like last week.
No collapsing sides. [sighs]
That's what we needed.
-[Christiaan] Looks all right.
-[Gill] Nice and brown.
On the whole, happy with that.
Nice job, team.
Have you noticed, they've put
all the Star Bakers on that side
and all the non-Star Bakers on this side?
I didn't actually realise that.
-You know why?
-[Alison] Why?
-Because we are the stars.
-[laughs]
They've been like…
We are the stars of the whole show.
-You don't need that title.
-Absolutely.
-I am a star.
-You are a star.
Since the case is cooked now,
I am gonna start assembling.
[Illiyin] Hopefully it will be
like a nice sticky filling,
but not too sticky,
and it stands on its own.
-[Noel] Oh, look at that.
-[Illiyin laughs]
It's taking me all my will power
not to suck that
out of someone's neck.
[Christiaan] I'll put it
back in the oven now.
That's going in for 45 minutes.
So I need to move on to my plaiting now.
[Alison] With the pies back in the oven…
I love owls.
They live in the night like me. [laughs]
…the race is on for the bakers
to create their autumnal
decorative pastry lids.
This one's more of an enriched.
It's posher pastry for the top.
[Sumayah] Dried beetroot
and spinach powder to colour my dough.
Just get a wiggle on.
[Noel] But Sumayah's not the only one
needing to hurry up.
[Dylan] I'm coming out.
[Noel] After taking extra steps
to laminate his dough…
[Dylan] Look at the layers.
They look nice.
[Alison] …Dylan's also taking on
a time-consuming decoration.
[Dylan] The decoration, I'm arranging
the apples like a rose on top,
so it'll be open to expose those.
I want this to look really pretty as well.
[Georgie] So I'm doing a lattice,
all plaits.
So I did it on Bread Week,
which I didn't do great on.
Gonna redeem myself today.
[Illiyin] This is a lattice maker.
Trying to figure out, "I move this one,
move this one and this one" was a no.
So this little treat is coming
to help a sister out.
I'm so glad I learned to do this.
It just makes a difference.
Come on. It should be able to come out
straightaway, but it's not.
Come on.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
[Dylan] Just need to get this done.
And if you take any longer,
I'll come and find you.
[Christiaan] I'll just take this
out the oven.
[Nelly] Ah, ah, hot, hot, hot.
Yeah, it looks nice. So far, so good.
[Sumayah] I'm in a rush
to get it in the oven.
Got about five minutes.
This pastry doesn't take long to cook.
I'm going in.
Please, just survive.
Get it in the oven for its final bake.
[sighs] Here we go. [exhales]
[breathing heavily] And breathe.
-[Alison] You've smashed the pie game.
-I don't know about that, but it's in.
The next fun part is getting it out.
[Illiyin] Come on.
[clicks tongue] I dunno
if this'll come off today.
I'm not sure what it's gonna do.
[Georgie] The pastry's not cold enough.
I can't get it off the paper.
[Dylan] Some pastry to cover it all,
then cut out a hole.
-Do you wanna grab the oven?
-Yes.
-There we go.
-This is our bake now.
If you get Star Baker, it's mine as well.
Gently coax it. Come on, my baby, come on.
-[drumroll]
-Just need to get it on. [exhales]
-Oop-ah. Oh, thank God.
-[dramatic music playing]
Get the hell in the oven. Get in, man.
Bakers, you have ten minutes left.
Oh, God.
Ah! Is what it is.
It's just the pastry
so I've just whacked the heat up.
Just turn that up.
It's just annoying.
Because now the pastry is burning.
[intense music playing]
[Sumayah] Mine'll be done soon.
Three more minutes.
We're living on the edge. [laughs]
[Nelly] I'm getting out.
I hope it's cooked. So we'll see.
That's so pale.
Got a little bit brown in places
but it's done.
-Bakers, you have one minute left.
-[exhales]
[vocalising]
[Georgie] It won't get any better.
It looks all right, I think.
It's a bit dark.
It's raw at the top.
I can't do anything about it.
My attempt getting it out
is the scary bit.
[Georgie gasps]
In best case, it comes out in one piece.
Worst case, it just cracks.
[Nelly] Oh, no.
Here it crack a little bit.
[Gill] No, I'm breaking this.
Damn. It's just cracked
a little bit at the side.
-[Georgie] It's burnt to a crisp.
-[timer beeping]
Let's just hide it. Oh, it's awful.
-Bakers, your time is up.
-[Sumayah] Thank you, Gill.
Oh, God.
That's the first thing Paul will say.
He'll walk over and go,
"It's a bit underbaked,
isn't it?" [laughs]
So burnt.
[growls]
[suspenseful music playing]
[Noel] The bakers' autumnal pies
now face the judgement of Paul and Prue.
Hello, Christiaan.
First off, I think it looks great.
Very autumnal.
[Prue] The colour's beautiful.
It has got a layer of almond paste
in the bottom,
a layer of poached quince
and then we've got a pumpkin pie filling.
[Prue] The pumpkin filling
is just a little liquid
but that is perfect pastry.
It is absolutely short as anything.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Mmm.
I mean, quince, pumpkin and marzipan.
It blends beautifully well together.
And the spice levels are perfect as well.
Well done.
-Thank you, Christiaan.
-Thank you.
-That's a handshake, innit, surely?
-[laughs] Nah.
What's happening? Steward's enquiry.
-[laughter]
-Didn't say a bad thing.
[bright classical music playing]
-[Paul] Love the look of it, the colour.
-It's absolutely lovely.
[Paul] There's a crack on the side.
[Gill] I tried to move it off the base,
it cracked.
I sat myself down
and gave myself a talking to.
[Prue and Paul laugh]
[Gill] It's an apple and blackberry pie
with ginger filling inside.
What's nice is
there's still a little bite to the apple.
You've got the tartness
coming from the blackberry.
And the note of ginger is great.
It marries everything together.
Almost unimprovable.
-Pastry's wonderful. Just a lovely pie.
-[Paul] Mmm.
Clever, well done.
[gentle classical music playing]
I do like the decoration.
It could've done
with a bit longer in the oven.
Okay.
[Paul] It's just a little bit pale.
[Nelly] It's, erm,
apple and poppyseeds pie.
Shortcrust pastry
with lemon a little bit inside.
-[Paul] The filling is exquisite.
-Oh, thank you.
-I've never had anything like that.
-[Prue] Nor have I.
[Paul] The pastry's very delicate.
Flakes in the mouth, melts.
I just think it needs…
-A bit longer.
-Longer.
-Thank you.
[whispers] Well done.
[Nelly] That's not bad.
Got it, huh?
Make my country proud. Hmm.
[bright classical music playing]
[Illiyin] This is a pear, blueberry
and a bit of ginger.
It just didn't have ten minutes longer
for the lattice on the top.
-There. Yeah.
-[Paul] It's raw. Yeah.
-[Prue] Pastry's a failure, sadly.
-[Paul] Mmm.
But I love the filling.
-I'd've increased the quantity of pears.
-[Illiyin] Okay.
-Like jam.
-[Illiyin laughs]
Overall, it's a nice pie.
Shame about the bake.
-Thanks.
-No worries.
[Prue] Well done.
[bright classical music playing]
-[Paul] Great-looking pie.
-[Sumayah] Thank you.
[Paul] Love the design,
the delicacy of this work here.
-Exceptional.
-[Prue] It's original, looks lovely.
So it's a butternut, custard and pecan pie
with a white spelt pastry.
[Paul] I like the pastry.
I think it's got a good snap to it.
-Crumbly.
-[Sumayah] Thanks.
Your spice level is slightly too high.
Oh. [laughs] Yeah.
It's overwhelming everything.
-Great decoration.
-Thank you.
[whimsical classical music playing]
[Paul] I love the look.
The design is incredible.
I think it's burnt.
-You've caught-- Yeah.
-[Dylan] Sugar caught a bit.
[Prue] I'm a little disappointed
with the pastry.
-Okay.
-You made a rough puff, did you?
-[Dylan] Yeah.
-[Prue] It's not melt-in-the-mouth.
-It's just a bit tough.
-I did blind bake it, 20 minutes.
[Paul] Probably too far
but flavour-wise, texture-wise,
the apples with the walnuts together
is really tasty.
-Very clever.
-Wicked. Thank you.
-You like autumn a little bit more now?
-No.
You're the autumn Grinch.
[all laughing]
-Well done. Thank you.
-Cheers.
[dramatic classical music playing]
I had a disaster with the baking times.
-It's completely burnt.
-[Prue] Oh.
-You got some weepage, some breaks.
-[Georgie] Yeah.
-'Cause it's overbaked, it's so brittle.
-Yeah.
[gasps] Oh, it is what it is now.
You don't want me to say this
but you've overdone the spice.
-Do you eat it with ice cream?
-[coughs]
-[Georgie] No.
-Like that?
I just like it like that. Yeah.
I would have more than that at home.
-No.
-Mmm.
I like the idea,
just cut back on some of those spices.
-[laughs]
-A little bit.
-A lot.
-I kept putting more and more in.
-Cut back…
-For normal humans.
[all laugh]
-Thank you very much. [coughs]
-Thank you.
[whispers] I would genuinely
put more in at home.
He said that for mine too.
Said mine was over-spiced.
I would've liked it to go better
but they liked my decoration.
I mean, I feel like
I need to do a bit better
in the technical and showstopper
just to, like, redeem myself.
That went all right. I'm still nervous
for the rest of the week. [laughs]
With the technical,
you have no idea what's gonna happen.
Like, there are so many things
that are autumnal.
If you're in the north,
there's parkin and treacle toffee.
Let's just turn up and see.
I came last last time
so it can't get any worse.
[quacking]
[gentle classical music playing]
[Alison] Whilst the bakers
could practise their signature bakes,
they have no idea what awaits
in the technical challenge.
Hello, tiny bakers.
Welcome back to the tent.
It's time for your technical challenge
which today has been set for you
-by the wonderful Prue Autumn Leaf.
-[chuckles]
Now, Prue, have you got
any autumnal words of advice?
There are aspects of this bake
that will take much longer than you think.
[Noel] Interesting.
Now, as ever,
this challenge will be judged blind
so we're gonna have to ask
Prue Autumnal Leaf
and the Human Apple, Paul,
to leave the tent.
-Off you pop.
-[Alison laughs]
-"Appaul."
-See you, guys.
Okay, so for your Autumn Week
technical challenge,
Prue would love you to bake her vegan take
on a Bonfire Night classic,
parkin.
Look at this girl.
Gill's smiling from ear to ear.
She knows what it is.
-Oh, the joys of being northern. [laughs]
-[Illiyin laughs]
The judges are looking
for a rich, sticky, vegan gingerbread,
sliced into perfectly neat squares
with candied ginger on top.
Now, remember,
if you place them next to each other,
that's called "parallel parkin".
-[both laugh]
-[Noel] You have an hour and a half.
-On your marks.
-Get set.
[Alison] Bake.
[Georgie] I have no idea what I'm doing.
I have no idea what this is.
Never heard of this,
never seen it, never had it.
What's a parkin?
It's a very sticky gingery cake.
I've never tasted it, always avoided it.
I won't panic about it.
I just need to trust that I know
how to do hard things.
[birds chirping]
Vegan parkin, Prue?
You're looking as if
that's not your favourite thing. [laughs]
Parkin is traditionally served
at Bonfire Night
and it's autumnal and warming
and spicy and delicious.
[Paul] It's a bit more difficult,
the fact that it is vegan.
How are they gonna go about this?
Because there's no egg,
they're relying on the baking powder.
Too little and it won't rise enough.
Too much, it'll rise like anything
and then sink again.
On the recipe itself,
you haven't given them the spice levels.
It's got some fresh ginger in there,
cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves and dried ginger.
They have to work out the spice.
-I like it quite spicy.
-Yeah.
Okay, shall we tuck in then, Prue?
Oh, it feels really gooey.
-[Prue] Mmm.
-Love the flavours.
Delicious, especially with a cup of tea.
I'm curious to see
how our bakers deal with this.
-I'm sure we'll get failures.
-You reckon?
It's tricky. Yeah.
[classical music playing]
"For the parkin, make the sponge
using the melting method."
"…using the melting method."
Right. We need another pan.
"Melting method"? What do they mean?
Do I warm it up, then mix everything?
I'm gonna melt the treacle up,
all the liquidy stuff,
like you would a gingerbread.
This is the golden syrup.
[Georgie] I don't know.
I've never done any of this.
So this is the melting method
which would usually involve butter
but we haven't got butter,
so I'm assuming we do
the same thing but with oil.
[Christiaan] Gill knows all about this.
I mean, she looks really
relaxed as well. Look.
-Are you relaxed?
-I know what parkin is. I'm relieved.
We were talking last night.
I said, "The only thing I know
that's autumnal is parkin."
-So you said that last night?
-Yeah.
-To this lot?
-You're the godmother of parkin.
-Parkin.
-How does that feel?
-That's-- That's, erm, scary.
[both laughing]
Look, she's so in control.
[Noel] But even for Gill…
I have made parkin
but I've never made a vegan parkin.
…today's vegan parkin
is a whole new challenge.
Baking powder.
[Noel] Without eggs,
baking powder is needed
to achieve the height
that Prue is expecting.
This is like the only raising agent
in the whole thing.
[Alison] But add too much
and the parkin will rise too fast
in the oven and collapse.
[Sumayah] I need
to make sure it's accurate.
Even if you get it wrong
by like half a teaspoon,
it can like affect the whole cake.
[Alison] Not enough
and it won't rise at all.
I had baking powder in my hand.
I'm like, "Did I put it in?"
I… I hope so.
Have I got time to do it again anyway?
I'm adding in all my spices now.
It says ground ginger, ground nutmeg,
ground cinnamon, ground cloves.
There's no quantities on the spices.
[Illiyin] I am basically going to spice it
like I'm spicing Jamaican ginger cake.
Jamaican ginger cake is similar
to what I imagine parkin to be like.
I think you kind of wanna get a good hit.
I'm not sure.
I don't know if it needs to be, like,
burning-in-your-mouth ginger
or if it should be quite subtle.
-Bung the ginger in.
-I just gonna go by my taste, you know.
Are these meant to be lightly spiced?
I'd rather have less than too much.
-Going easy on the spices this time?
-I think I have.
There's no measurements so mine
is probably gonna be like… [gagging]
-Again.
-[laughs]
I'm gonna put my dry ingredients
into the wet.
I'm assuming this is the right way.
Yeah, I'm just gonna go with it.
[Christiaan laughs] I think this
whole thing looks a bit gross. I'm sorry.
That is vile. Do people like this, Gill?
People like this.
Yes, the people do like this, Dylan.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
[Noel] You've got 45 minutes.
I need to go in the oven.
[Sumayah] "Pour the batter
in the prepared tin."
"And bake." Well, let's do that.
[Sumayah] I'm gonna bake it
for 30 minutes.
In you go, baby.
It's gonna take quite a long time
because it's really dense.
And I'm going to leave that
for 35 minutes.
[birds chirping]
Don't know what it's meant to look like
but it's baking. [laughs]
[Nelly] Now I just gonna wait
till it's bake.
[Noel] We'll play true or false.
Do you like one of your… rabbits
better than the other one?
-True.
-Do you like Alison better than me?
-This pop-in is over.
[both laughing]
Well, you're very neurotic
whereas Alison is more stable.
Do you think you're neurotic?
-And anxious and so my anxiety is based--
-Yeah.
Is that what's happening?
-I think--
-Anxiety and anxiety… [imitates collision]
-Yeah.
-You need someone to go--
-It just makes a negative.
-[Noel] I'll take that on board.
[birds chirping]
-Bakers, you've got 15 minutes.
-[exhales]
-[sighs]
-[Alison] Nelly's finished.
-[Nelly] I'm done.
-You done? [laughs]
Not yet, not yet, not yet.
Not so fast, not so fast.
Another five minutes.
-I don't know what I'm looking for.
-[Noel] How do you know?
You put that in and if there's goo on it,
no good. If it's clean, good.
It's clean,
but I'm giving it one more minute.
Can we take mine out?
-And we're done.
-It's coming out. Bugger it.
Right.
[sighs] I don't know how it's supposed
to look but I hope good. [laughs]
[Christiaan] It's sunk.
I mean, it's like… [imitates sad horn]
I've no idea.
Well, it's not very high, mine.
It's as flat as a pancake.
-What do you mean? Hasn't risen?
-Hasn't risen.
I had baking powder in my hands.
Whether I got distracted
and didn't put it in, I've no idea.
-Sorry, sweetheart.
-Bless you.
-[laughs]
-Are you worried?
Oh, this is definitely
a last place, isn't it?
-You won't be allowed back into the north.
-No, I won't.
Taking off some of the edge
so it doesn't look as sunk as it is.
-Bakers, you've got five more minutes.
-[sighs]
[Illiyin] "Decorate using the icing…"
This is okay, I think.
"…and crystallised ginger,
slicing into 16 squares."
Okay. Four rows of four.
Four times four is 16.
It's not exact.
Big mistakes going on here.
Making sure that it's perfect,
that's the hard bit.
[Dylan] I can already see them
saying it's not even.
Bakers, you have one minute left.
[sighs]
[Sumayah] I dunno what they want me to do,
but… freestyling.
[Christiaan] Go all over the top,
I imagine.
Just a little swirl.
I should've piped mine.
I've just done blobs. [laughs]
[Nelly] This one's fall apart.
[Illiyin] I'm happy with that texture.
-I think it looks okay.
-[Gill] Mine's horrific.
My hands are really shaking.
Bakers, your time is up.
[In Slovak] I've won first place!
Hallelujah.
[Alison] Well done.
Please come and place your parkin
behind your photos.
Gonna get rid of this as soon as possible.
[sighs]
Last place is secured.
[birds chirping]
[Noel] It's judgement time
for the bakers' parkin.
Paul and Prue are looking for
12 identical portions
of richly spiced parkin,
each with a light, sticky texture
and delicately iced decoration.
-They look quite nice, don't they?
-Some do.
[Alison] And they have no idea
whose is whose.
-Shall we?
-Over here.
The decoration looks okay.
[Prue] You know, I quite like
a good deal of icing on parkin
because it's not a very sweet cake
so it needs a bit of help.
-[Paul] There's not much spice.
-[Prue] Bit of ginger.
-Not much else.
-Hmm, okay.
-[Prue] This one.
-[Paul] These are neat.
[Prue] Hmm. They're certainly prettier.
-Spice level's higher.
-It's nice sticky texture, I like that.
Very nice.
[Paul] These are bit flat, aren't they?
-[Prue] A bit heavy.
-[Paul] It is.
Spice level's sort of there.
It's on the way,
but it's not the best looking one, is it?
-These are neat.
-[Prue] Mm.
-[Paul] Got a nice bit of height to it.
-[Prue] Very good height.
-Ooh, the spice level's good.
-Mmm, I like it very much.
[Paul] That's good. Okay, moving on.
These have been overmixed.
-They could hold a door open.
-[all laugh]
[Prue] That's not enough baking powder.
Weirdly, the spice level's pretty good.
But it's like rubber.
-It's a shame.
-[Prue] It is.
[Paul] These are a bit artistic,
aren't they?
-[Prue] Nice and shiny.
-[Paul] They are.
I would've liked a tiny bit more ginger.
I get the other spices
but I don't get too much ginger.
-I like that. It's neat.
-Very good. Very good.
Now, I do like these.
I like the pattern. Height's pretty good.
-It's very nice.
-Mmm.
The texture's good.
-They're just cut up unevenly.
-[Paul] Yeah.
Otherwise, they're pretty decent.
Okay, this is gonna be
interesting judging.
[Noel] Prue and Paul will now rank
the bakers' parkin from worst to best.
So, in seventh place, we have this one.
Whose is that?
-Mine.
-Gill.
I definitely had baking powder in my hand
but now I'm doubting
whether I put it in. [laughs]
All your problems, texture, height,
started and ended with that.
-Yeah.
-In sixth spot, we have this one.
Christiaan, your spice levels
across the board were quite low
-and they are a bit flat.
-They are.
[Alison] Nelly is fifth,
Dylan fourth,
and Sumayah comes third.
In second spot, we have this one.
Whose is this?
These are pretty good.
Just not as good as number one.
It comes down to spice levels
and the bake and the uneven cut.
Which means we have this one
as number one.
-[Christiaan] Well done.
-[applause]
Illiyin, you did everything right.
They're nicely decorated and taste lovely.
-So, well done.
-Yes, Illiyin.
[laughs]
I can't believe I came first.
I've never come first in technical
and when Prue was like,
"You've done everything right."
I was like, "Never in my life." [laughs]
[Gill] Last week, I was last in technical
but I didn't feel like
I was this far behind.
It's not the ideal place to be.
It's just one little stupid slip-up.
So hopefully we can pull it back tomorrow.
[birds singing, chirping]
[whimsical music playing]
[indistinct conversation]
I mean, Autumn Week.
It's the first time I've ever seen it flip
from the signature to the technical
where one's at one end
and the other's at the other.
Gill did really well in the signature,
then bottom in the tech.
Then you look at Illiyin.
Really poor in the signature, raw dough,
then won the technical challenge.
-Everyone's just gone like that.
-Last week, Gill did exactly the same.
She was useless at the technical
and she won Star Baker.
She could do it again.
Is anyone in trouble?
-I'll be honest. Everybody else.
-Really?
Everybody's so close.
It's all down to the showstopper.
At this level, at this stage,
one mistake can cost you, can't it?
-Me and you are in trouble.
-Gosh, I'm nervous.
We're always in trouble. Especially you.
[laughs]
[birds chirping]
[dramatic classical music playing]
Hello, bakers. Welcome back to the tent.
It's time for your showstopper challenge.
[Noel] Today, the judges would like you
to make an imaginative cake
based on an autumnal festival.
Now, whether it's Bonfire Night,
Diwali or Halloween,
you must decorate your cake
according to your chosen theme.
-Did you say "Bum fire Night"?
-Yeah, it's my accent, babe.
[Noel] The weird thing for this challenge,
the judges would love you
to use vegetables.
So parsnips at the ready.
-You've got four hours.
-[Noel] On your marks.
-[Alison] Get set.
-[Noel] Bake!
[bright classical music playing]
[Gill] There's a lot going on.
There's no breathing space
in these four hours.
We got this, we got this.
I wanna nail this today.
All guns blazing, let's go.
Today's showstopper challenge
is the autumn festival cake.
But we've got one addition.
We want the bakers to add
some vegetables in there as well.
If it's got a carrot in it,
it's one of your five a day.
You do naturally think of carrot cake,
but you can also add parsnip.
Beetroot also adds some great flavour
and great colour.
But they stain your hands
for like the next week.
The most difficult thing
about this challenge
is the texture of the cakes.
It depends on how much water there is,
whether you'll get a light cake
or a doughy heavy one.
You've got to get rid of some moisture.
[Paul] All the bakers are in line
for going home. It's that tight.
So there is no wriggle room
in this challenge at all.
-Christiaan, good morning.
-Hello, how are you?
Tell us about your showstopper.
In the Netherlands,
we celebrate Sint Maarten
where kids craft lanterns,
go around the houses,
sing songs and get the candy.
Then I moved to the UK
and that's when I first started
to experience Halloween. I love it.
I go all out with the house decorations.
Projection on the house,
spider webs everywhere.
Sound effects. Lightning on the ceiling.
Some kids run away screaming
because they're so scared, like…
-Soon as this finishes, I'm round there.
-[laughs]
[Alison] Just like his house at Halloween,
Christiaan isn't holding back
when it comes to his cake.
Four individually decorated
spooky stained glass windows
will encase a parsnip,
apple and celeriac sponge,
sandwiching layers
of maple meringue buttercream
and a ginger-spiced marrow jam.
-A lot going on.
-A lot of flavours.
So what is the hero flavour?
It would be the celeriac and parsnip.
-[Prue] Good, I love celeriac.
-[Noel] Amazing.
-Lovely.
-Sounds great.
I'm making a spinach sponge,
very smooth, like a smoothie.
[Noel] No matter which vegetables
the bakers have chosen…
-[Sumayah] Parsnip and beetroot.
-You a fan of cooking with veggies?
I mean, I… I make carrot cake.
I like a carrot cake.
It's the only socially
acceptable vegetable
-to put in a cake.
-Yeah.
[Noel] …to achieve
a light, delicate sponge…
[Georgie] So steamy.
The pumpkin's in the oven.
That needs to dry out and roast.
[Alison] …they must first remove
as much water as possible.
It's important to make sure
that you squeeze out
as much of the liquid that you can.
Because it can be quite gross.
If you don't get rid of it,
you'll end up with a very sodden cake.
I'm glad to see you
getting rid of all the moisture.
[Illiyin] Get rid of that moisture.
It kills the carrot cake.
You don't want it claggy,
so I get out as much as possible.
I love claggy cake. Don't know about you.
-You don't.
-[Prue] We don't like that.
[Noel] The four layers
of Illiyin's carrot and courgette cake
will be filled with an orange
mascarpone cream
and coated in a multicoloured buttercream
in homage to the Mexican Day of the Dead.
I just love the fact that I can say
"Día de los Muertos" over and over again.
-What's that mean?
-Day of the Dead.
-Say it again.
-De.
-Los.
-Muertos.
-Muertos. You speak Spanish so lovely.
-Day of the Dead. There we go.
-Day of the Dead.
-Bring it on.
[Noel] Illiyin may be honouring the dead…
I'm like a witch with Halloween.
[evil laugh]
…but Nelly's chosen
to celebrate life itself.
-My showstopper is about woman in my age.
-Twenty-two.
-[laughs]
-Charmer, huh? What a charmer.
We are entering the autumn
as a woman, isn't it?
So, you know,
when we're harvesting all the experience.
-The wisdom.
-Absolutely.
-You can see the wisdom.
-[Prue] So sensible now.
-[Noel] You want a bigger bowl?
-Yeah.
Child's paddling pool?
[Alison] Decorated to document
her carefree youth and wiser older years,
Nelly will sandwich layers
of chocolate avocado cream
and plum jelly
with a delicate spinach sponge.
[Nelly] Try and make sure
we not destroying the fluffiness.
It's tricky make a spinach cake.
Get it wrong,
it'll be like a pancake. Flat.
I mean, life is about having joy,
not having stress.
If it doesn't go right,
it doesn't go right. There is exit.
You'd leave with the two trees
on your head and be happy.
-Yes, I'm leaving with my crown on. Still.
-[laughs]
Bicarbonate of soda going in.
[Alison] Nelly's not the only one
hoping to rise to the occasion.
[Gill] It's in.
[Alison] Gill's having a second attempt
at her autumn festival favourite.
[Gill] I've always loved Bonfire Night
and as soon as you say Bonfire Night,
it's parkin.
It could go one of two ways here.
I can show that I can really do it,
or I can show that I have no idea at
parkin whatsoever and I failed it twice.
[Noel] Gill's hopping back
on the parkin horse
by marrying it with a classic carrot cake.
Decorated with a buttercream bonfire,
she'll top the lot with biscuit rockets
and meringue fireworks.
So, it's a hybrid
of carrot cake and parkin.
That you're so good at.
That I'm brilliant at
and that I practised.
Apparently, it's got baking powder in it.
-Apparently, it has.
-[laughs]
-It's already in there.
-Double check.
-[Gill] Double sure.
-It'll be this tall.
-It'll be like that this time. Yeah.
-[all laughing]
Looks disgusting.
Ugh, it's like a gloopy, gloopy mess.
[Noel] But Gill's not the only baker
looking for redemption.
It's a carrot and pumpkin cake.
Gonna go easy on the spices?
I have taken-- I did well in the parkin
after listening to you.
The spices were okay.
I really toned it down.
Georgie, lightweights.
[laughs]
[Alison] Georgie's delicately spiced
pumpkin and carrot cake
will be stacked and coated in fondant
to form an autumnal tree stump.
So it's gonna be four cakes.
The cakes need a lot of time to cool
but there's a lot of decorations
to be done as well, so I need the time.
[Alison] Also needing plenty of time…
So now, let's pray
that my cake gonna rise beautifully.
…are the vegetable sponges in the oven.
These cakes take longer to bake
simply because of the moisture.
If this was a normal sponge,
you'd be able to cook it in 20 minutes,
but this takes 35 to 40.
[Noel] But if baking so much cake
wasn't challenging enough…
And in. Good, yay, done.
…Sumayah's made her showstopper
twice as hard.
As you can see… [laughs]
it's quite a lot of stuff.
I'm doing a parsnip,
cumin and fennel cake,
and I'm doing a beetroot,
ginger and walnut cake as well.
There's gonna be two tiers.
I wanna do two because
I'm not confident in either of them
so hopefully one tastes good. [laughs]
[Sumayah] The only baker
to tackle two separate cakes,
Sumayah will layer them both
with a treacle and cinnamon
Swiss meringue buttercream
and blackcurrant jam
before stacking and decorating them
with beetroot and parsnip foliage
and surrounding the lot
with a tempered chocolate collar.
Are you gonna go hog wild
on the decoration?
Hopefully, yeah. [laughs]
Sumayah, you do realise
you've only got four hours.
Yeah. I mean, I have got it done in time.
It sounds a lot though,
a lot of different components to this.
It's not really.
Well, no, it is. It is really.
-Good luck, Sumayah.
-Thank you.
[Nelly] Just grow, just grow, baby, grow.
[Noel] With their vegetable sponges
in the oven…
-[Illiyin] Making my buttercreams.
-…the bakers can focus on their fillings.
Starting the marrow jam
with a bit of ginger and the jam sugar.
I just gonna whisk the ganache
a little bit
and then I gonna add, slow by slow,
the avocados.
So I'm doing the cardamom
cream cheese frosting with the orange.
My cake is based on Diwali.
I feel I've done lots of Japanese stuff,
but I probably know more
about Indian flavours.
Cardamom, I think, is really nice
and goes really well with orange.
[Noel] Dylan's Diwali-inspired cake
will see a beetroot sponge
layered and coated in a crisp
white cardamom cream cheese icing
and topped with a hand-sculpted
all-white peacock.
-[Paul] White peacock?
-Yeah.
[Noel] They make a funny noise.
-[Dylan] Yeah.
-[coos] Like that?
-Yes. Only louder.
-Louder.
[squawks]
-No, that's nearly there.
-[squawking]
[peacock calling]
Bakers, you are halfway through.
Come on, you can do it,
you can do it, you can do it.
[Christiaan] Gonna check on the cakes.
I'm gonna give them a few minutes more
just because they're quite wet.
[Illiyin] I don't want
any moisture anywhere.
They're all fine.
Happy days. Just need to cool now.
The cooling time is the killer.
Whoa!
[groaning] That's so annoying.
[Georgie] Oh, good God.
Are you okay?
I'll bake another cake.
-[Noel] Dylan, what's gone down?
-I just threw my cake on the floor.
-Oh, what you doing?
-I dunno, mate.
-Have you got time to make it again?
-I've got more batter in the fridge.
You're a cool customer.
I mean…
No panics.
Now I'm glad I over-made extra batter.
I have an hour to bake it. It's tight.
[Noel] While Dylan has the daunting task
of baking and cooling another cake…
Hey. Now we've gotta go again.
[exhales] I've got more to do now.
[Alison] …the rest of the bakers
also have their hands full…
This is a treacle biscuit dough.
You can't go to a showstopper with a cake.
You need bells and whistles to go with it.
Or rockets and fireworks in this case.
[Alison] …creating their extravagant
autumn festival decorations.
[Christiaan] My cake will be
Halloween themed.
It's gonna have stained glass windows.
[Noel] That's me. [laughs]
I posed for that picture. [laughs]
[Christiaan laughs]
[Georgie] I'm gonna make a mini pumpkin.
I'm gonna cover this with quite a lot
'cause then it'll scrunch and make
the pumpkin shape with the strings.
Now we're using a death weapon,
AKA a mandolin.
Try not to slice my fingers off.
So I'm shaping them
into rough flower shapes.
Then I'm gonna dehydrate them.
It's just enough time.
I think-- How long do we have left?
Bakers, you have one hour left.
[squeals]
-[Nelly] Is one hour now. [sighs]
-[Sumayah] These need to go in the oven.
-Oh, God.
-[Noel] It's tense.
They get worried
and then they pull it out of the bag.
There's loads to do.
I know, but you're not supposed
to present it from a bag.
[laughs]
[Dylan] I'm waiting for it to bake.
So I'm gonna make my peacock cake topper.
[Noel] It's big. It's rising.
Yeah. But I need it to cool.
Which would leave me ten minutes
to decorate the top tier.
-[groans]
-I know.
What are you doing to me?
-Giving me a heart attack.
[Alison] But while Dylan's cake
has been delayed…
I'm gonna start layering my cakes now
so I need to cut them to size
and stack them all up.
[Noel] …for the rest of the bakers…
We shall see if we did good job or not.
…it's the moment of truth.
I'm happy with that. [laughs]
[Illiyin] Nice and moist inside.
It's cooked the way carrot cake should be.
[Georgie] The middle…
Oh, that's not cooked.
Oh, marvellous. [sighs]
[sighs] Could be better.
Is a little bit still moist.
These ones look okay.
I might just do three tiers.
[Christiaan] So it's gonna be, like,
cake, marrow jam, buttercream.
[Georgie] Because I'm down a layer
I'll do a thicker layer of buttercream.
[Nelly] Chocolate avocado cream.
Choc-oado. We make a new word.
Choc-oado. [laughs]
This is when my husband starts
screaming, "It's good enough!"
It's good enough for me.
[birds chirping]
[Dylan] Oh, it's finally cooked. Yay.
Bakers, you've got half an hour left.
-Ooh.
-[Alison] Half an hour.
[Nelly] It's icing for the top of the hat
and I just improvise, as you can see.
The cake is still warm, so we shall see.
[Dylan] Gonna try and cool this cake down
as quick as possible
and then I'm gonna decorate
the bottom tier as nice as I can.
[Illiyin] Generally, autumn colours
are orange and yellow.
But the Day of the Dead festival
is really bright and flamboyant,
so I'm trying to go bold in my colours.
[Dylan] It'll be an all-white cake.
Make it marble is my thought process.
[Illiyin] Peel it off. That's cool.
[Dylan] Wow. Looks amazing.
I honestly am losing faith
that this is gonna look great now.
-[Georgie] There's a lot of line work.
-[Alison] Can I try a piece?
-Is it over-spiced?
-[Alison] God. No. It really isn't.
I can't get enough. I'm having it all.
I'm glad you're enjoying it.
At least Alison likes it.
[Christiaan] I've just started
painting the stained glass windows.
So we've got a little electric tealight
that's gonna shine
behind each little window.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes left.
[Gill] You feel like you've done so much
and you've still got so much left to do.
[Nelly] I wanna make sure
I got the woman done.
I need to do my chocolate collar
and arrange my floral decorations on top.
Oh, I have quite a lot left.
[Dylan] This is the second tier.
It looks awful.
Okay, I'm going for it.
Now I gonna do me.
Oh, dear, this gonna be disaster.
-[Noel] That is so cool.
-[Nelly] Triple chin.
It's not just amazing, it's witty as well.
I just hope they're gonna like it.
[Sumayah] The nerve-wracking bit is done.
-Oh, bloody hell. Look at him.
-[Georgie] His sculpting is amazing.
We just need to eliminate him somehow,
you know, slap him.
[laughs]
You have to stop threatening Dylan, Nelly.
We really need
to get rid of him now, seriously.
This looks so bad.
What do you mean, Nelly?
Bakers, you have one minute left.
Chuck it on, then I'll tidy it up.
Oh. That's why we have spares.
Una pareja.
-This looks like Day of the Dead to me.
-[Christiaan] Worried they'll slide off.
So far, so good.
It looks crap.
And I can't fix it.
There's nothing I can do.
[Sumayah] Wow. I'm actually on time.
[Nelly] This one is crooked, you know?
Can I fit any more on?
-Done.
-Bakers, your time is up.
[exclaims]
Please step away from your showstoppers.
So cool.
-Everyone's looks amazing.
-That is so cool.
[Dylan] No. I think it all looks awful.
Come here.
-Thanks, Gill.
-You'll be fine. Okay?
[gentle classical music playing]
[Alison] The bakers' autumnal cakes
will now face the judgement
of Paul and Prue.
Sumayah, would you like
to bring up your showstopper?
[gentle classical music playing]
-[Paul] Great-looking cake.
-Thank you.
[Prue] I love the colours.
That chocolate fence is just exquisite.
-[Paul] Mm.
-Wonderful.
-[Paul] Right.
-Whoops.
Might have to dismantle
your fence a little bit.
Wow!
The top tier is a beetroot,
ginger and walnut cake.
[Prue] I love the flavour.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] I like the texture, too.
It's like a sticky toffee pudding
in a cake.
Quite delicious, every element.
Let's have a quick look.
I almost don't want to eat anything else.
Just get stuck in and finish this.
-[Noel] You're a dame. Do what you like.
-[laughter]
So the bottom tier is a spiced
parsnip cake with some flaked almonds.
Wow.
-That's, erm…
-She is one hell of a baker.
[all cheering]
-Oh, my God, thank you.
-That's amazing.
[indistinct amazed chatter]
-Oh, my God.
-[Prue] I so heartily agree.
One of the best cakes
I've had for a long time.
-[Sumayah] Wow.
-I'll take some home.
-Ah. Okay.
-[Paul] That's excellent.
Fantastic.
-Thank you so much.
-Well done, Sumayah.
-[Alison] Well done.
-[Noel whispers] Well done.
[whispers] Well done.
The perfect cake.
God, there's no beating that,
is there? [laughs]
[gentle classical music playing]
I'm in love with that cake. [laughs]
[Paul] It's a pretty morbid-looking cake.
Very neat though,
'cause you've done beautiful work
on the outside to keep it like that.
[Prue] The stained glass is just amazing.
Really beautifully done.
[Paul] Parsnip and celeriac.
Yes, and there's some
pecan nuts in there as well.
-Love it.
-[chuckles]
[judges laughing]
-Oh, you had me there.
-[both laughing]
The celeriac and the parsnip
work beautifully inside it,
and the citrus flavours
just lighten it all up.
[Prue] I love the jam and the filling
'cause it's very smooth.
-Well done.
-Thank you very much.
-[Paul] Thank you.
-Well done.
[gentle classical music playing]
-I love the fire around the outside.
-[Prue] It's beautifully done.
[Paul] But I hope it tastes better
than the parkin yesterday.
Ooh, let it lie.
[judges laughing]
I love the nice, thin, very even layers.
It is a blend between parkin
and carrot cake. It's spot in the middle.
The spices and the ginger
are at just the right level.
I think it looks great, tastes good.
-Yay.
-I do too. It's lovely.
-[Paul] Well done. Thanks, Gill.
-Thank you.
[Prue] Very good.
[bright classical music playing]
[Prue] I think that's astonishing.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] The vibrancy of those colours.
The decoration is exquisite.
It's excellent. It really is.
-Wow.
-[Illiyin chuckles]
-It's a solid cake.
-[Paul] Big cake.
-[Paul] Courgette and carrot?
-[Illiyin] Yeah.
I'd say that's absolutely
the right level of spice.
Not too strong, delicious.
And the carrot and courgette
are moist enough still.
You've drained a lot off.
It's pleasant in the mouth.
You've done a great job.
-Well done, Illiyin.
-Thank you so much.
-[Prue] Thanks.
-Thank you.
[dramatic classical music playing]
The cake looks amazing, very professional.
Could be sitting in front
of any bakery window.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] So, let's see how it tastes.
Looking forward to the spices on this one.
[snickers] I think
they're okay on this one.
[Prue] Oh, wow.
It's a carrot and pumpkin cake
and the cream cheese frosting
has stem ginger, little bit of cinnamon.
It's a little damp.
The pumpkin, it's probably released
quite a bit of juice.
[Prue] Yeah.
[Paul] Flavour-wise, spot on.
-A really, really good cake.
-Thank you.
[dramatic classical music playing]
It's well iced.
You've done a nice job on the hat.
[Nelly] Thank you.
That's quite exquisite, and I love the way
it changes, your exuberant youth
and then more sophisticated autumn.
You're barely in the summer.
-Thank you. Charmer.
-[all laughing]
Right, let's have a slice, shall we?
-Oh, dear.
-[Prue] Ah.
-[Paul] Wow.
-[Prue] Wow.
It is a spinach, vanilla sponge
with avocado chocolate ganache cream.
Inside is a plum-spiced jam.
Your cake's concertinaed up
because it's a light cake.
-I saw you folding it.
-Yeah.
You've put seven layers on,
it's gone like that and then it's dense.
-Yeah.
-And this is a terrific achievement.
It's a huge cake.
But it is slightly overcomplicated.
'Cause it's difficult to distinguish
that many flavours.
Yeah, design's excellent. Flavour's…
Come on, you can't be perfect.
-[Alison] No, you are perfect.
-[all laughing]
-Thank you.
-[Alison] You're so perfect.
[dramatic classical music playing]
-[Paul] It's a bit messy.
-Yeah, I know.
[Paul] I said a bit. It's a lot messy.
This is a festival
that's meant to celebrate something.
You look at it, that doesn't look like
it's celebrating much.
Yeah. I know, yeah.
[Prue] I think you needed
to do the covering better
so that it really was totally white.
However, let's have a look inside.
So it's a beetroot and orange cake
with cardamom and cream cheese frosting.
I love the flavour. I think it's gorgeous.
I love the icing.
It's light. It lifts it up.
The outside I don't particularly like,
but I do like the flavours inside.
-Thank you very much, Dylan.
-[Dylan] Cheers.
[tense classical music playing]
I get it if they send me home
'cause it's a showstopper,
it's meant to look amazing.
If someone put that in front of me,
I'd go,
"This is awful, mate, go home.
What are you doing here?"
[Nelly] I strongly believe
it is between me and Dylan.
However, if I go home,
I'm going with my crown
and I'm happy to go home.
[chirps]
[tense classical music playing]
That was one of the most exciting
showstoppers I've ever seen.
-I mean, Sumayah's was just…
-[Paul] Wow.
I thought she'd never manage it.
Such a complicated idea.
Masses of different ingredients.
And she pulled it off at every point.
She did. The flavours…
-There was nothing wrong with that cake.
-[Prue] No.
Challenging with Sumayah up at the top
you have to put Gill.
-Gill is such a reliable good baker.
-[Alison] She is.
[Prue] Never overcomplicates,
knows what flavours go with what.
-Yeah.
-It's coming from nowhere.
[Noel] It's not her first rodeo.
Couple weeks ago,
we're not having this conversation.
-She's a dark horse.
-Yeah, she might be one to watch.
-So who is in trouble?
-[Paul] Er, Dylan.
-[Noel] Yeah.
-[Paul] I loved the flavour.
But the cake itself didn't look good.
He wasn't the only one
I thought had a weak week.
Now there's Nelly.
-The outside, I thought that was clever.
-The story was great.
[Paul] When we got into it,
I didn't like the flavour at all.
She's a bit like Dylan.
They both think, which is great,
but the cake's got to be good.
[Noel] Taste good.
I can't believe
they're even in the bottom two.
-Nelly and Dylan.
-[Prue] I know.
[Alison] This is unbelievable.
We're losing bakers
left, right and centre.
Well, one a week.
-Just one a week.
-[laughs]
There's only seven.
We can't lose them left, right and centre.
[all laughing]
[tense classical music playing]
Well done, bakers.
You've got through Autumn Week.
I'm very excited
because I get the lovely job
of announcing this week's Star Baker.
This week's Star Baker is…
Sumayah.
[all cheering]
That means I have got the horrible job
of announcing
which one of you will be leaving us.
The person who's leaving us this week is…
Nelly.
I'm not going anywhere!
[all laughing]
-I'm sorry.
-Oh, don't be silly.
I'm so ready.
It's not commiseration. It's a positive.
I never, ever was thinking
I would come to round six.
For me, everything above round three
was a bonus. Bonus game.
I know my children are so proud.
Maybe I am only the sixth place,
but you know what,
it's not to teach them win,
it's to teach them enjoy.
[Nelly] Don't cry. Everybody's crying.
-It's time to celebrate.
-[Gill laughing]
Of course I'm happy.
In each of your hearts
is a piece of Nelly,
and you're never gonna forgot me,
and that was my aim.
Cake we can bake.
Piece of Nelly you got. [kisses]
You need to make me proud.
I, er, definitely got off lucky, 100%.
Erm, I think I need to start taking it
a bit more serious
because nothing's as bad
as what happened today.
That was the worst feeling in the world.
I feel like extra happy because everyone
this week genuinely did amazing.
So like to get Star Baker,
I'm really happy. [laughs]
There's only six of us left now,
so, yeah, that's crazy.
[laughs]
I told you, you not going anywhere.
[all chanting] Nelly, Nelly, Nelly, Nelly.
[Alison laughing]
[closing theme music playing]